<TABLE border="1"
          summary="This table lists the NetApp properties exposed by Eucalyptus, a brief description, default value in Eucalyptus and NetApp CLI to verify the values">
<TR><TH>Release<TH>Eucalyptus property<TH>Allowed values<TH>Default value in Eucalyptus<TH>Description from Netapp API doc<TH>Netapp CLI
<TR><TH rowspan="8">Properties introduced in 3.2.1 for EUCA-2309<TH colspan="5"> Applicable to both 7-mode and Cluster mode
<TR><TD>region.storage.fractionalreserve<TD>Integer: 0-100<TD>0<TD>This option decreases the amount of space reserved for overwrites of reserved objects (LUNs, files) in a volume. The option is set to 100 by default and indicates that 100% of the required reserved space will actually be reserved so the objects are fully protected for overwrites. The value can vary from 0 to 100. Using a value of less than 100 indicates what percentage of the required reserved space should actually be reserved. This returns the extra space to the available space for the volume, decreasing the total amount of space used. However, this does leave the protected objects in the volume vulnerable to out of space errors since less than 100% of the required reserved space is actually reserved. If reserved space becomes exhausted this will cause disruptions on the hosts using the objects. If the percentage is decreased below 100%, it is highly recommended that the administrator actively.<TD rowspan="4">vol options <vol-name>
<TR><TD>region.storage.guarantee<TD>String: “none” or “file” or “volume”<TD>“volume”<TD>Flexible volumes only. Setting this option controls the type of space reservation for the named flexible volume. There are three possible settings. The first, “none”, provides no guarantee that there will be enough blocks in the containing aggregate to meet the flexible volume's needs. The second, “file”, guarantees there will be enough blocks in the containing aggregate to meet the needs of the specified files in the flexible volume. The third, “volume”, is the default setting and guarantees there will be enough blocks available in the containing aggregate to meet the entire flexible volume's needs. An error will be returned if an attempt is made to set this option on a traditional volume.
<TR><TD>region.storage.noatimeupdate<TD>String: “on” or “off”<TD>“on”<TD>Setting this option to “on” prevents the update of inode access times when a file is read. This option is useful for volumes with extremely high read traffic, since it prevents writes to the inode file for the volume from contending with reads from other files. It should be used carefully. That is, use this option when you know in advance that the correct access time for inodes will not be needed for files on that volume.
<TR><TD>region.storage.tryfirst<TD>String: “volume_grow” or “snap_delete”<TD>“volume_grow”<TD>If the flexible volume is configured to automatically reclaim space if the volume is running out of space, then setting this option to “volume_grow” will cause the volume to increase in size before deleting snapshots. If the option was set to “snap_delete”, snapshots will be deleted before the volume size is increased.
</TABLE>